Improve Pull Requests By Including Valuable Context (#619)
artsy/artsy.github.io: _posts/2020-07-08-pull-requests-require-context.md

---
layout: epic

> title: "Pull Requests Need Context"

Reviewer: _Every pull request should tell a story_
_When it comes to Pull Requests, show, don't tell_
_This one weird trick will make code review go better and faster_

Reviewer 2: _This is the type of Pull Requests I want to review from now on_

Author: Thanks for the suggestions! They helped me arrive at _Improve Pull Requests By Including Valuable Context_.

date: "2020-07-08"
author: [steve-hicks]
categories: [tools, github, team, community, engineering]
---

Code review is an engineering process that has benefited greatly from a move toward asynchronous communication.
Long ago, engineering teams would sit around in a room together with code on a projector to review changes. 😱 For
many teams this would mean batching code reviews or even skipping them altogether. 😱😱

Today, most engineering teams use incredible tools like GitHub or GitLab to review changes through Pull Requests
(PRs). The greatest advantage of PRs is that the review can happen when it's convenient for the reviewer:
asynchronously.

> <!-- more -->

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion to move it one paragraph down to have a teaser of the "problem".

One important feature _missing_ from asynchronous communication is the ability to course-correct when context is
misunderstood. When you're in a synchronous conversation with someone, it doesn't take much time for them to let
you know you've forgotten to include context. It doesn't take much time for you to add the missing context to keep
the conversation moving forward.

It takes a lot longer to identify missing context when communicating asynchronously. Worse, lack of context when

> _reviewing code_ asynchronously has a reverb effect. I create my PR when it's convenient for me, you ask a

Reviewer 3: I like this reverb metaphor. I've been thinking about roundtrips over a slow 2G network, but this works way better.

clarifying question when it's convenient for you, I respond when it's convenient for me, etc. Suddenly my PR has
been open for three days and we haven't yet made it to a common understanding of why I've made these changes.

> It's extremely important to include all available context when drafting a PR. It saves incredible amounts of time

Reviewer 3: More explicit language here might help:

```suggestion
It's extremely important to include all available context when drafting a PR. Extra upfront work ends up saving incredible amounts of time
```

by cutting out slow round-trip conversations to clarify.

I'm personally proud of and impressed by the job we do at Artsy in including context in our PRs. We start early, by
giving our engineers
[some reading about how we work with PRs during their onboarding](https://github.com/artsy/README/blob/master/playbooks/engineer-workflow.md#pull-requests).

But beyond that our engineers lead by example. This article presents a handful of examples from Artsy repositories
demonstrating how you can add context to your PRs to avoid unnecessary clarifying conversation.

## Explain Your Reasoning

You've been thinking a lot about the problem you're solving - probably significantly more than your reviewers.
You'll save everyone time by describing the problem and sharing how you're thinking about it.

### Define the problem and solution

Why does this PR exist? Explain the problem it solves and describe your solution, as
[Sarah](https://github.com/sweir27) does [in this PR](https://github.com/artsy/force/pull/3095). For bonus points,

> include alternative approaches you considered.

Reviewer 2: I personally love a basic PR template with a structure like this to encourage authors to explain the context!

### Explain interesting lines of code

The reviewers aren't the only ones who can comment on lines of code.
[Give them](https://github.com/artsy/emission/pull/2085#discussion_r378228269)
[additional information](https://github.com/artsy/emission/pull/2085#discussion_r378230196)
[about why](https://github.com/artsy/emission/pull/2085#discussion_r378231974) a particular line was written, as
[David](https://github.com/ds300) does [in this PR](https://github.com/artsy/emission/pull/2085). Maybe you want

> feedback focused on that line or maybe the line has side-effects and implications that aren't obvious.

Reviewer 2: An idea: Github [inline suggestions](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request#applying-suggested-changes) provides a developer-friendly way to discuss code in a concrete way, in comparison to standalone comments.

### Give a guided tour of the changes

[Devon](https://github.com/dblandin) takes the idea of adding context to individual lines to the next level
[in this PR](https://github.com/artsy/reaction/pull/2774#pullrequestreview-288095754). He takes advantage of
markdown to give us a virtual tour of the changes, at each stop providing helpful information and a link to the

> next change. It's like he's sitting next to you!

Reviewer: I don't want to blow up your whole structure, but this is cool enough to maybe go last ("with a bang").

Author: I went back and forth on this. I struggled to rebuild a different flow that would end in this example and maintain cohesion, so I'm going to leave the structure as-is. Thank you for the suggestion, though!

## Show Your Work

> If your PR contains work that is beyond trivial, "showing your work" can help reviewers understand what they're

Reviewer 4: What do you mean by "show your work"? This could use one more sentence to provide an example and explain what exactly you mean!

reviewing.

### Make small, self-contained commits

A good PR starts with good commits. Good commits are small, self-contained, and leave the codebase always in a
working state. With good commits, reviewers can see exactly how you worked through the problem you were solving.
[Here's a PR](https://github.com/artsy/convection/pull/645) from [Jon](https://github.com/jonallured) that
demonstrates the use of small, self-contained commits to describe his approach to refactoring code before fixing a
bug.

_Bonus tip_: it can be easier to review PRs with many small commits via the
[_Commits_](https://github.com/artsy/convection/pull/645/commits) tab instead of the

> [_Files changed_](https://github.com/artsy/convection/pull/645/files) tab.

Reviewer 5: 💯 💯

[Here's a PR](https://github.com/artsy/force/pull/5817) from [Ashley](https://github.com/ashleyjelks) that includes
animated gifs of the changes she's made. The effects of the changes might not be obvious by looking only at the
code, but seeing them in action makes it clear.

### Document the unseen

Sometimes a PR's changes have effects outside of the UI. There are still ways to give reviewers proof that the
changes have the desired effects.

[Here's a PR](https://github.com/artsy/eigen/pull/3206) from [Yuki](https://github.com/yuki24) that not only
demonstrates what's happening in the UI, but also assures me that the back-end data is getting updated properly
through a Rails console.

[Christina](https://github.com/xtina-starr) authored [this PR](https://github.com/artsy/reaction/pull/3441) which
shows the UI changes in addition to some output from her browser console, demonstrating that analytics tracking
calls are firing correctly.

### Share your progress

One mistake many engineers make with non-trivial pull requests is to wait to open them until they're "done". If
there are changes you'd like to get people's eyes on quickly, open a PR before the work is done and mark it as

> in-progress with`WIP` in the title. This helps avoid rework by starting early discussions about your approach.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in-progress with `WIP` in the title. This helps avoid rework by starting early discussions about your approach.
```

> in-progress with`WIP` in the title. This helps avoid rework by starting early discussions about your approach.

Reviewer: Or use a "draft" PR.

(Also: minor typo in this line.)

Reviewer 3: There's also the benefit of getting early feedback to validate your approach 👍

Let reviewers know in the body that your work isn't complete. As you continue your work, use a `TODO:` list in the
body to illustrate your progress, as in [this PR](https://github.com/artsy/palette/pull/464) from

> [Sepand](https://github.com/sepans).

Reviewer 2: Some examples that may be worth calling out:

- Dependent PRs: Explaining the sequence of the work and author's strategy around merging, and releasing, etc. helps reviewers streamline the review process.
- Prerequisites/Follow-ups: Any migration required pre/post merge/deploy? A shared understanding about when/who to address them helps avoid oversight.

Reviewer: +1 to describing any actions already taken and any follow-ups necessary.

A big point of PRs (in my opinion) is syncing between the contributor and reviewer (or project maintainer), so that the reviewer can, e.g., describe the change in a change-log or release notes, conduct the eventual deploy, confirm the results are correct, etc. This saves yet another hand-off or round-trip.

## Spread knowledge

Pull requests should not be one-sided - they aren't just about collecting feedback from the reviewer. They're also
an opportunity to spread knowledge from the author.

### Share your learnings

Maybe you learned some things about the system you're working with, or you learned a new feature of the language.
Share this new information with your team. [Roop](https://github.com/anandaroop) shares some findings about
disabled tests [in this PR](https://github.com/artsy/metaphysics/pull/2130).

We introduced a new state management library shortly before [I](https://github.com/pepopowitz) opened
[this PR](https://github.com/artsy/eigen/pull/3526), and I had to do some reading about how to add types to
something. I [shared my learnings with the team](https://github.com/artsy/eigen/pull/3526#discussion_r451161406).

### Share development tips

Did you learn a new technique while building this feature? Share it with your team!

In [this PR](https://github.com/artsy/reaction/pull/3279#discussion_r395461329),
[Chris](https://github.com/damassi) shared with us his technique for grabbing fixture data from his locally running
environment.

---

> Providing full context in a pull request will improve your asynchronous code reviews significantly. There are many

Reviewer 2: Slightly off-topic: I love more context in a pull request, and this reminds me of the opposite problem: too many (potentially unrelated) problems to address in a single PR, and dividing them into focused/digestible PRs makes reviewing easier. This may be relevant to the "Define the problem and solution" section above.

other opportunities to improve code reviews, but a PR filled with helpful context will start you on the right foot.

> (TODO: this paragraph is blah but I need a "wrap it up" paragraph, haaaalllp)

Reviewer: Instead of "improve your asynchronous... improve code reviews... start you on the right foot," you could remind the reader of the specific benefits implied above:
* shorten feedback cycles by avoiding confusion/lack of context
* surface important debates/differences earlier
* ship sooner
* educate
* serve as a reference, even much later and even for the authors themselves

Reviewer 4: Was going to leave a comment about how PRs are an excellent reference!

When we switch from Trello to Github Issues to Jira to Asana and our teams change structure yet again... our code will persist! Tracing through PRs to understand _why_ decisions were made after-the-fact is one of the best (and longest-lasting) resources we have.

Author: These comments were both really helpful for my conclusion rewrite - thank you!
